The purpose of this assessment is to have you apply the concepts and ideas learned in this course, specifically focusing on the ethical, legal, and societal impacts of technology.

Objectives;

Identify and define key ethical concepts.
Analyze ethical concerns throughout the software development lifecycle.
Use ethical frameworks and decision-making processes.
Articulate ethical concerns clearly and persuasively.
Analyze the ethical, legal, and societal impacts of software products.
Critically assess the ethical implications of emerging technologies.

Part Two
Task one: [Complete by week nine(9)]
Create a project journal/project logbook
Design & Development;
Maintain an ongoing reflection of your design choices and implementation decisions, together with their ethical implications.
Document this reflection in a project journal/project logbook.
Demo & Feedback:
Briefly highlight any ethical considerations addressed or challenges encountered during development.
Seek feedback on the ethical implications of your project's current state.
Document (in the project journal/project logbook) your insights/glows and areas of improvement from the demo. In addition, ensure your document highlights (but not be limited to) sections about;
Features of the system/code and guided system access/execution steps
Culturally relevant values the solution addresses or integrates
Elements of Ubuntu (interconnectedness, community, and shared humanity)
Respect for vulnerable groups and traditional leadership structures
Incorporation of opportunities for consensus-building transparency, accountability and inclusive decision-making
Possibility of leveraging oral traditions and storytelling to promote ethical values and transmit cultural knowledge within your system
How does the system encourage sustainable and environmentally responsible business practices?
Does your system address issues of social inequality and promote equitable access to opportunities and resources?
How does your system encourage ethical and responsible use of technology, addressing challenges like data privacy and digital divides?
Deadline: End of week nine(9)

Task Two: [Complete by week twelve(12)]
Video: Note that we must see your face as you present from the start to the end. At the same time, we want to see you navigate through your solution/system as you discuss it. Do not edit or combine clips of your video recording.
Create a 7 – to 15-minute video discussing;
The historical development of your capstone technology and the design choices that shaped it.
Its current uses and the user & User Impact (including inclusivity/exclusion) e.g. groups it may invite or exclude
The ethical concerns associated with the technology.
Potential alternative design choices that could lead to a more inclusive or ethical outcome.
A vision for the future development of the technology, considering ethical implications.
A walkthrough of the key sections of your written End-User License/Copyright/Privacy policy agreement.
Submission Name: Summative assessment: Part Two
File type: DOCX/PDF with a link to the recorded video
Deadline: End of week twelve (12) [03/28/2025]
